the most important thing about giving
advice is to avoid giving advice to
people who don't want to hear it
I'm trying to make this video fast paced
and upbeat by basically not talking
about myself I do have experience living
in Thailand Laos Cambodia Yunnan and a
few other places in Asia but this video
isn't about me this video is about a bit
of a cultural phenomenon a pattern of
people dropping out of university and
moving to Thailand quitting their jobs
and moving to Thailand and I think
that's part of an even larger
idealization of traveling in Asia in
21st century Western culture and the
West in this sense covers a lot of the
world when I was living in places like
Laos and Thailand and so on I met
travelers so called travelers from
Russia from Germany of course in the
United States and Canada and in a sense
they were all accepting this paradigm of
the traveler as someone who is not a
tourist and it was also not an immigrant
I think we used this word traveler to
kind of evade the sense of
responsibility that comes with the word
immigrant or just migrant um if you met
someone who migrated to your country
just to hang out just to waste time just
to lead a life of leisure with no long
term aspirations or objectives with just
no intentions aside from living a life
of self-indulgence because they have the
money to burn how would you regard that
person now it's very rare in most
Western societies in most societies
around the world Thailand is in a small
minority of kind of
destinations that have a large number of
people there all the time who don't have
a job who don't really have aspirations
to have a job and even if they do
they're just holding them that job to
kind of extend their their vacation
their status as a as a so-called
traveler without making any of this sort
of emotional intellectual and political
commitments that come with really
becoming an immigrant to another country
of taking on another society as your
long-term home and taking on your own
identity as a kind of permanent outsider
within that that society it's not easy
to keep track of what your motivations
are for doing things as an adult and
that's partly because your motivations
have to change as time goes on your
motivations can change quite rapidly if
you make a decision to move to Thailand
to quit your job to drop out of
university to radically suddenly change
your life and move to Chiang Mai I moved
to Bangkok moved to Thailand for
whatever reason what were your
assumptions what were your expectations
what we our motivations on day one once
you've been there for three months six
months probably you will have
encountered a series of disappointments
series of surprises
things that didn't turn out the way you
thought they would it's very easy to lie
to yourself at each juncture and say oh
this is what I wanted this is what I was
looking for or just to just to take up a
new direction in response to
opportunities as they present themselves
and forget why you were doing it in the
first place
here in Victoria I met a South Korean
guy and he was that rare example of a
man of leisure apparently his parents
were very wealthy and you know when I
met him I described myself in terms of
my aspirations in terms of what I'm
doing here at the University and what
kind of employment I'm looking for in
terms of the struggle
of ordinary life ordinary people and
with the exception of close personal
friends I mean a lot of us describe
ourselves that way this is what I'm
doing this is what I'm trying to do life
is a struggle and you know I'm not on
vacation back when I was living in
Thailand and Laos I was never on
vacation and you know was strange for me
to talk to this South Korean guy where
his responses his answers how he
describes his life has to do totally
with self-indulgence and dissipation and
wasting time and wasting money he
doesn't have a job he described himself
as somebody who never had a job he's not
looking for a job he's not planning to
have a job or a career he was taking
courses at the University but just to
pass the time he doesn't try to get good
grades he never wants to get a more
advanced diploma you know he is living
that life of leisure and he may be a
smart guy he may be a nice guy but it is
hard not to regard him as a scumbag if
Thai people meet a westerner in Thailand
and that's how they see you and if you
really stop and think about it maybe
that's who you are why shouldn't those
Thai people regard you as a scumbag - at
least by default it makes a lot of sense
before you make that move you should
already be studying the Thai language
and you should already be reading the
newspaper from Thailand in English every
day and that is advice I would give you
tatis mutandis - a Chinese immigrant who
told me that they wanted to move from
China to Canada
you know nobody thinks twice about that
oh you're planning to migrate to Canada
well then you need to be studying
English now before you go
oh you're planning to move to Canada
well you need to get familiar with the
political and economic and social
reality of Canada now something as
simple as reading the newspapers it can
change you it can change your
perspective of the society you can
change your perspective of yourself
it'll have you asking questions that you
would have never thought to ask
otherwise and the newspapers in Thailand
are censored they are under government
influence and government control but
nevertheless there are little things
that will illustrate the reality of what
Thailand is and in 2015
Thailand is a military dictatorship and
you should care about that if you want
to migrate to Thailand and if you don't
care about that and you read the
newspaper every day or day for a while
and you just don't care then you
shouldn't move to Thailand you should
look at that big colorful map of the
world and choose somewhere else to move
to where you do care about the people
the politics the economy the culture the
history whatever it is why not South
Korea why not Saudi Arabia don't throw a
dart at the map in theory I mean the
airplane ticket is going to cost about
the same amount to go almost anywhere
what are your motives you know Thailand
right now has this strange place in the
Western imagination as supposedly
offering a sort of cheap life of luxury
not really a place between places but a
paradise for rent
I remember reading in the newspaper a
description of a failed assassination
attempt against one of the local
governors in Thailand and you know the
guy was driving his truck he saw a food
vendor by the side of the road that he
especially liked and he impetuously
pulled over his truck to the side of the
road and jumped out of the driver's seat
to buy whatever kind of food it was soup
or something I don't know and a bomb
went off under the driver's seat of his
truck and he would have died if he
hadn't gotten out at just that moment
little things reading the newspaper even
reading a censored government controlled
newspaper little things will clue you in
to the social reality of what Thailand
is in the 21st century and I say that as
somebody who in some ways in some ways I
can say I love Thailand and in some ways
I can say I hate Thailand and that's
what it's like to care about a country
there will be both there will be things
you respect and there will be things you
despise and there will be positive
things that motivates you to be there
and there will be negative things that
scare you apart from the newspapers I
spoke to people face-to-face who have
witnessed assassinations including
political assassinations within Thailand
I remember one guy describing to me
the strange sight of the police with a
garden hose washing the blood off the
sidewalk a few seconds after someone was
shot to death a political figure minor
political figure was shot and it's very
likely that whole assassination was
arranged by the police that was up and
up any Sun northeastern Thailand you
know my point is not that political
violence is the whole of what Thailand
is and my point is not that you can't be
indifferent to it
I think you know if you want to you can
move to Israel and ignore the violence
ignore the political problems you know
the economic realms if you want to you
can move to Saudi Arabia and ignore all
those problems and never read the
newspaper and take no interest in the
outside reality of the world but if so
you know you're choosing the wrong
country I mean I think that's this is
fundamental to why Thai people by and
large and in general regard Western
tourists as scumbags by default if you
go to a foreign country just to live in
luxury then you are scum back and keep
in mind luxury means different things to
different people
for some people a life of luxury means
living on a yacht for some people it
means sex drugs alcohol for some people
means gambling means going to the
casinos for some people it means
swimming at the beach yeah for some
people a life of luxury is just a kind
of dissipated life of maybe riding your
bicycle up a mountain going swimming
eating fancy food I'm not insinuating
that everyone should be motivated by
humanitarian interests or research
interests I know I'm in a small minority
of people anywhere in the world and
everywhere in the world who is really
motivated by those things but you should
not be surprised that people in Thailand
regard you as a scumbag when the
objective reality of why you're there
and what you're doing there really is a
life of dissipation self-indulgence
cheap luxury easy pleasures
and it's it's a little too easy for
people to hide that behind the words
like like lifestyle and you know even
this use of traveling of being a
traveler what are you really if you meet
someone and they really have no
ambitions they have no aspirations they
just want to live a life of
self-indulgence permanent vacation how
do you feel about them and if that's you
if that's who you really are and that's
the life you're really living how do you
feel about yourself